Kanister Prometheus Framework Design Doc (#2151)
kanisterio/kanister: design/kanister-prometheus-integration.md

# Enhancing observability in Kanister

<!-- toc -->
- [Motivation](#motivation)
- [Scope](#scope)
- [Detailed Design](#detailed-design)
  - [Architecture](#architecture)
    - [Text description](#text-description)
  - [Low Level APIs](#low-level-apis)
    - [Metrics Package](#metrics-package)
      - [Example Initialization Steps for a new CounterVec metric](#example-initialization-steps-for-a-new-countervec-metric)
    - [Consumer Package](#consumer-package)
- [Testing](#testing)
<!-- /toc -->

This document proposes the changes required within Kanister to integrate
[Prometheus](https://github.com/prometheus/prometheus) and enhance the observability 
of action sets. 

> ## Motivation

Author: Done

Kanister controller already has a registered metrics endpoint `/metrics`. There are no metrics exported other than the default Prometheus metrics that the default handler provides. Adding metrics to track the 
ActionSets and Blueprints workflow will help improve the overall observability. 

To achieve this, we need to build a framework for exporting metrics from the Kanister controller, and to 
start with, export some metrics to Prometheus. 

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This framework simplifies the common need for Prometheus counters to
publish 0 values at startup for all permutations of labels and label values.
This ensures that Kanister controller restarts are recognized by Prometheus
and that the Prometheus rate() and increase() functions work properly across restarts.
 
```

Reviewer 2: Very much agree with this comment!

Author: Thank you for pointing this out. I've included it now.

Some example metrics include:
ActionSets succeeded
ActionSets failed
Action duration
Phase duration, etc.

## Scope
1. Design a framework that allows us to export new
Kanister metrics to Prometheus easily. 

> 2. Add a few fundamental metrics related to ActionSets and Blueprints to start with.

Author: Fixed.

## Detailed Design

### Architecture

![Alt text](Metrics_design.png?raw=true "Prometheus Integration Design")

> #### Text description

Author: Fixed

> 1. The initializer of the consumer package calls new_metrics, a helper method that talks to Kanister’s metrics package. The result is a new metrics struct that owns all the prometheus collectors.

Reviewer: From the perspective of the most important audience, a Kanister developer, I believe we should refer to these as Prometheus **metrics**, not **collectors**.
And for consistency in this doc, we should capitalize Prometheus.

A `Collector` is an internal interface and refers more to the side of the metrics being collected by the Prometheus code that is invoked when the `/metrics` endpoint is scraped. But let's keep it simple for the Kanister developer.
(Yes, it's also the type returned for all metrics and material for unit tests, etc.,
but for getting Kanister developers to add Prometheus metrics, let's not complicate it.)

See overview terminology used at https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/overview/

```suggestion
1. The initializer of the consumer package calls new_metrics, a helper method that talks to Kanister’s metrics package. The result is a new metrics struct that owns all the Prometheus metrics.
```

Author: Yes, exposing this as "Prometheus Metrics" makes sense. I've made the change throughout the document.

> 1. The initializer of the consumer package calls new_metrics, a helper method that talks to Kanister’s metrics package. The result is a new metrics struct that owns all the prometheus collectors.

Reviewer 2: Reading further through the document, this appears to be the `newMetrics` method outlined below. I would suggest that we rename it here (and in the diagram) to match.

> 1. The initializer of the consumer package calls new_metrics, a helper method that talks to Kanister’s metrics package. The result is a new metrics struct that owns all the prometheus collectors.

Author: Yes, done. I'm now using `newMetrics` throughout.

> 2. In order to initialize all the required prometheus collectors, the new_metrics method calls the InitCounterVec, InitGaugeVec, InitHistogramVec in the metrics package. It passes the metric names and the specific label names and label values, aka, BoundedLabels, to the metrics package. Once it initializes all the prometheus collectors successfully, it returns an struct that wraps all the collectors, which the consumer package can then use. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In order to initialize all the required prometheus collectors, the new_metrics method calls the InitCounterVec, InitGaugeVec, InitHistogramVec in the metrics package. It passes the metric names and the specific label names and label values as BoundedLabels to the metrics package. Once it initializes all the prometheus collectors successfully, it returns an struct that wraps all the collectors and that the consumer package can then use. 
```

Author: Fixed

> 2. In order to initialize all the required prometheus collectors, the new_metrics method calls the InitCounterVec, InitGaugeVec, InitHistogramVec in the metrics package. It passes the metric names and the specific label names and label values, aka, BoundedLabels, to the metrics package. Once it initializes all the prometheus collectors successfully, it returns an struct that wraps all the collectors, which the consumer package can then use. 

Author: Fixed

> 3. The metrics package internally attempts to initialize the collectors and register the specific collectors with prometheus. If the registration fails because the specific metric with label header already exists, the collector will simply be returned to the caller. If the registration fails due to other reasons, then the metrics package will cause a panic, signalling programmer error. In case of the CounterVec, the InitCounterVec attempts to generate all possible permutations of label values and sets each counter 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. The metrics package internally initializes the Prometheus metrics and registers them Prometheus. If the registration fails because the specific metric with label header already exists, the metric will simply be returned to the caller. If the registration fails due to other reasons, then the metrics package will cause a panic, signaling programmer error. In case of the CounterVec, the InitCounterVec function generates all possible permutations of label values and initializes each counter 
```

Author: Fixed

> 3. The metrics package internally attempts to initialize the collectors and register the specific collectors with prometheus. If the registration fails because the specific metric with label header already exists, the collector will simply be returned to the caller. If the registration fails due to other reasons, then the metrics package will cause a panic, signalling programmer error. In case of the CounterVec, the InitCounterVec attempts to generate all possible permutations of label values and sets each counter 

Author: Fixed

> within the CounterVec to 0. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
within the CounterVec with a value of 0. 
```

Author: Fixed

> within the CounterVec to 0. 

Author: Sorry about that. I've hard-wrapped all the lines to 80 characters for better readability.

> within the CounterVec to 0. 

Reviewer: @miquella Don't we have some guideance somewhere about "semantic linefeeds" or such?

https://rhodesmill.org/brandon/2012/one-sentence-per-line/

> within the CounterVec to 0. 

Author: Interesting. This document states that any new sentence or a natural punctuation break triggers a new line. 
Should I go ahead and make this change for the designs doc?

> within the CounterVec to 0. 

Reviewer: @miquella Please opine on whether to convert to semantic linefeeds.

@mellon-collie You might also check with @pavannd1 or @viveksinghggits -- if they think it's a good idea for this doc (and generally for kanister docs?), then it would be reasonable to do so. I don't suggest doing it just on my mentioning it-- don't want to go back and forth without a general consensus.

> within the CounterVec to 0. 

Reviewer 3: Yes, agree with this. We recently started enforcing the 80-character limit on docs. It'll take a while to refactor older docs but we should definitely follow that moving forward.

> within the CounterVec to 0. 

Author: Sure, thanks @pavannd1 This design doc has been changed to follow this.

> within the CounterVec to 0. 

Reviewer 2: @ewhamilton: I haven't heard of such guidance before and have always found it difficult to follow "semantic linefeeds", but that may just be because I am accustomed to column hard-wrapped text 🤷

> 4. Once the collector is created in the metrics package, it will be returned to the consumer package’s new_metrics helper method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Once the Prometheus metric is created in the metrics package, it will be returned to the consumer package’s new_metrics helper method.
```

Author: Fixed

> 5. Once the initialization of all collectors are complete, a new metrics struct will be returned to the consumer’s package initializer. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Once the initialization of all metrics are complete, a new metrics struct will be returned to the consumer’s package initializer. 
```

Author: Fixed

> 6. Suppose the consumer package wants to increment a specific counter in a counter vec, it constructs a prometheus.Labels mapping using a helper method to retrieve the specific counter from the counter vec and performs an increment operation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. The consumer package may find it usefule to implement a helper method that constructs
a prometheus.Labels mapping to access a specific counter from a counter vec and perform an increment operation. 
```

Reviewer 2: s/usefule/useful/

Author: Fixed

> ### Low Level APIs

Reviewer: I've got some questions about how to handle APIs in this document. I don't know what guidance you've been given or what the Kanister project has for documentation guidelines.

My 2 concerns relate to whether to include code fragments for APIs in design docs and if so to what degree.

For now I'm going to ignore that process issue and will make any substantive comments in the godoc headers for the code in #2163 .

#### Metrics Package

```golang
// BoundedLabel is a type that represents a label and its associated 
// valid values
type BoundedLabel struct {
	LabelName   string
	LabelValues []string
}
```
An example of a BoundedLabel is in the scenario of ActionSet resolutions.
Suppose we want to track these resolutions across different blueprints, 
we would create the bounded labels in the following way:
```golang
BoundedLabel{
  LabelName: "operation_type"
  LabelValues: ["backup", "restore"]
}

BoundedLabel{
  LabelName: "action_set_resolution"
  LabelValues: ["success", "failure"]

> }

Author: @miquella This isn't intended to be go code. It's just an example of how an instance of the struct will look like. Do we still need to maintain the indentation? Because the markdown isn't giving us the intention automatically. 
Please let me know if there are any better ways to represent this example.

> }

Reviewer 2: @mellon-collie: This issue is more that the rendered version of this document is inconsistent. This makes it more difficult to read the document and for no particular reason.

Furthermore, it may cause the reader to wonder why things are different and whether those differences important? (obviously indentation isn't important in Go, but distracting the reader limits their ability to consume and understand the document)

// registerGaugeVec registers the GaugeVec with the provided Registerer. If the
// GaugeVec has already been registered, the existing GaugeVec will be returned.
func registerGaugeVec(r prometheus.Registerer, g *prometheus.GaugeVec) (*prometheus.GaugeVec, error) 

// registerGauge registers the Gauge with the provided Registerer. If the
// gauge has already been registered, the existing metric will be returned.
func registerGauge(r prometheus.Registerer, g *prometheus.Gauge) (*prometheus.Gauge, error) 

// registerCounter registers the Counter with the provided Registerer. If the
// counter has already been registered, the existing metric will be returned.
func registerCounter(r prometheus.Registerer, g *prometheus.Counter) (*prometheus.Counter, error) 

// registerHistogram registers the Histogram with the provided Registerer. If the
// histogram has already been registered, the existing metric will be returned.
func registerHistogram(r prometheus.Registerer, g *prometheus.Counter) (*prometheus.Histogram, error) 

// registerCollector is an helper to register a metric and log registration errors

> func registerCollector(r prometheus.Registerer, c prometheus.Collector) (prometheus.Collector, error)

Author: As discussed, we'll be going ahead with documenting only the exposed/public interfaces here.

```

##### Example Initialization Steps for a new CounterVec metric
1. Initialize a new CounterVec with relevant options and label names 

2. Attempt to register the new CounterVec

   a. If successful,

       i. Generate combinations of label names

       ii. Create counters for each combination and set the counter 
           to 0.

   b. If not successful, check if the error is an AlreadyRegisteredError

       i. If yes, return the CounterVec and ignore the error

       ii. If no, return a nil CounterVec and the received error. 

> 3. If received a nil CounterVec from regitration, interrupt with a panic, because an interrupt would suggest a failure in the created CounterVec, which should be fixed by the programmer. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. If received a nil CounterVec from registration, interrupt with a panic, because an interrupt would suggest a failure in the created CounterVec, which should be fixed by the programmer. 
```

Author: Fixed.

> 3. If received a nil CounterVec from regitration, interrupt with a panic, because an interrupt would suggest a failure in the created CounterVec, which should be fixed by the programmer. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. If received a nil CounterVec from registration, interrupt with a panic, because an interrupt would suggest a failure in the created CounterVec, which should be fixed by the programmer. 
```

Author: Fixed.

# Enhancing observability in Kanister

<!-- toc -->
- [Motivation](#motivation)
- [Scope](#scope)
- [Detailed Design](#detailed-design)
  - [Architecture](#architecture)
    - [Text description](#text-description)
  - [Low Level APIs](#low-level-apis)
    - [Metrics Package](#metrics-package)
      - [Example Initialization Steps for a new CounterVec metric](#example-initialization-steps-for-a-new-countervec-metric)
    - [Consumer Package](#consumer-package)
- [Testing](#testing)
<!-- /toc -->

This document proposes the changes required within Kanister to integrate
[Prometheus](https://github.com/prometheus/prometheus) and enhance the observability 

> of action sets. 

Author: Thank you

and that the PromQL rate() and increase() functions work properly across restarts.

Some example metrics include:
ActionSets succeeded
ActionSets failed
Action duration
Phase duration, etc.

## Scope

1. Design a framework that allows us to export new
   Kanister metrics to Prometheus easily. 
2. Add a few fundamental metrics related to ActionSets and Blueprints to start with.

## Detailed Design

### Architecture

![Alt text](Prometheus_Metrics_Design.png?raw=true "Prometheus Integration Design")

#### Text description

1. The initializer of the consumer package calls newMetrics, a helper method 
   that talks to Kanister’s metrics package. The result is a new metrics struct
   that owns all the Prometheus metrics.

2. In order to initialize all the required Prometheus metrics, the new_metrics 
   method calls the InitCounterVec, InitGaugeVec, InitHistogramVec in the 
   metrics package. It passes the metric names and the specific label names 
   and label values as BoundedLabels to the metrics package. Once it 
   initializes all the Prometheus metrics successfully, it returns a struct that 
   wraps all the metrics and that the consumer package can then use. 

> 3. The metrics package internally initializes the Prometheus metrics and 
>    registers them Prometheus. If the registration fails because the specific 
>    metric with label header already exists, the metric will simply be returned 
>    to the caller. If the registration fails due to other reasons, then the 
>    metrics package will cause a panic, signaling programmer error. 
>    In case of the CounterVec, the InitCounterVec function generates all 
>    possible permutations of label values and initializes each counter 
>    within the CounterVec with a value of 0.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. The metrics package internally initializes the Prometheus metrics and
   registers them with Prometheus. If the registration fails because the specific
   metric with label header already exists, the metric will simply be returned
   to the caller. If the registration fails due to other reasons, then the
   metrics package will cause a panic, signaling programmer error. In case of
   the `CounterVec`, the `InitCounterVec` function generates all possible
   permutations of label values and initializes each counter within the
   `CounterVec` with a value of 0.
```

> 4. Once the collector is created in the metrics package, it will be returned 
>    to the consumer package’s newMetrics helper method.
> 
> 5. Once the initialization of all Prometheus metrics are complete, a new 
>    metrics struct will be returned to the consumer’s package initializer. 
> 
> 6. The consumer package may find it useful to implement a helper method that constructs
>    a prometheus.Labels mapping to access a specific counter from a CounterVec 
>    and perform an increment operation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. Once the collector is created in the metrics package, it will be returned to
   the consumer package’s `newMetrics` helper method.

5. Once the initialization of all Prometheus metrics are complete, a new
   metrics struct will be returned to the consumer package's initializer.

6. The consumer package may find it useful to implement a helper method that
   constructs a `prometheus.Labels` mapping to access a specific counter from a
   `CounterVec` and perform an increment operation.
```

> ### Low Level APIs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### APIs
```

Author: Done

#### Metrics Package

```golang
// BoundedLabel is a type that represents a label and its associated 
// valid values
type BoundedLabel struct {
	LabelName   string
	LabelValues []string
}
```

> An example of a BoundedLabel is in the scenario of ActionSet resolutions.
> Suppose we want to track these resolutions across different blueprints, 
> we would create the bounded labels in the following way:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An example of a `BoundedLabel` is in the scenario of ActionSet resolutions.
Suppose we want to track these resolutions across different blueprints, we
would create the bounded labels in the following way:
```

> ##### BoundedLabel example

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
##### BoundedLabel example

```

```golang
BoundedLabel {
  LabelName: "operation_type"
  LabelValues: ["backup", "restore"]
}

BoundedLabel {
  LabelName: "action_set_resolution"
  LabelValues: ["success", "failure"]
}
``` 

> ##### Initialization methods

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

##### Initialization methods

```

```golang
 

> // InitCounterVec initializes and registers the counter metrics vector. It takes a list of 
> // BoundedLabel objects - if any label value or label name is nil, then this method will panic. 
> // Based on the combinations returned by generateCombinations, it will set each counter value to 0.
> // If a nil counter is returned during registration, the method will
> // panic

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
// InitCounterVec initializes and registers the counter metrics vector. It
// takes a list of BoundedLabel objects - if any label value or label name is
// nil, then this method will panic. Based on the combinations returned by
// generateCombinations, it will set each counter value to 0.
// If a nil counter is returned during registration, the method will panic.
```

func InitCounterVec(r prometheus.Registerer, opts prometheus.CounterOpts, boundedLabels []BoundedLabel) *prometheus.CounterVec

> // InitGaugeVec initializes the gauge metrics vector. It takes a list of BoundedLabels, but the 
> // LabelValue field of each BoundedLabel will be ignored.
> // If a nil counter is returned during registration, the method will
> // panic

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
// InitGaugeVec initializes the gauge metrics vector. It takes a list of
// BoundedLabels, but the LabelValue field of each BoundedLabel will be
// ignored. If a nil counter is returned during registration, the method will
// panic.
```

func InitGaugeVec(r prometheus.Registerer, opts prometheus.CounterOpts, boundedLabels []BoundedLabel) *prometheus.GaugeVec

> // InitHistogramVec initializes the histogram metrics vector. It takes a list of BoundedLabels, but the 
> // LabelValue field of each BoundedLabel will be ignored.
> // If a nil counter is returned during registration, the method will
> // panic

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
// InitHistogramVec initializes the histogram metrics vector. It takes a list
// of BoundedLabels, but the LabelValue field of each BoundedLabel will be
// ignored. If a nil counter is returned during registration, the method will
// panic.
```

func InitHistogramVec(r prometheus.Registerer, opts prometheus.CounterOpts, boundedLabels []BoundedLabel) *prometheus.HistogramVec

> // InitCounter initializes a new counter.
> // If a nil counter is returned during registration, the method will
> // panic

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
// InitCounter initializes a new counter.
// If a nil counter is returned during registration, the method will panic.
```

func InitCounter(r prometheus.Registerer, opts prometheus.CounterOpts) prometheus.Counter

> // InitGauge initializes a new gauge.
> // If a nil counter is returned during registration, the method will
> // panic

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
// InitGauge initializes a new gauge.
// If a nil counter is returned during registration, the method will panic.
```

func InitGauge(r prometheus.Registerer, opts prometheus.GaugeOpts) prometheus.Gauge

> // InitHistogram initializes a new histogram.
> // If a nil counter is returned during registration, the method will
> // panic

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
// InitHistogram initializes a new histogram.
// If a nil counter is returned during registration, the method will panic.
```

func InitHistogram(r prometheus.Registerer, opts prometheus.HistogramOpts) prometheus.Histogram
```

##### Example Initialization Steps for a new CounterVec metric

> 1. Initialize a new CounterVec with relevant options and label names 
> 
> 2. Attempt to register the new CounterVec
> 
>    a. If successful,
> 
>        i. Generate combinations of label names
> 
>        ii. Create counters for each combination and set the counter 
>            to 0.
> 
>    b. If not successful, check if the error is an AlreadyRegisteredError
> 
>        i. If yes, return the CounterVec and ignore the error
> 
>        ii. If no, return a nil CounterVec and the received error. 
> 
> 3. If received a nil CounterVec from registration, interrupt with a panic, 
>    because an interrupt would suggest a failure in the created 
>    CounterVec, which should be fixed by the programmer. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Initialize a new `CounterVec` with relevant options and label names.

2. Attempt to register the new `CounterVec`.

   a. If successful,

       i. Generate combinations of label names

       ii. Create counters for each combination and set the counter to 0

   b. If not successful, check if the error is an `AlreadyRegisteredError`

       i. If yes, return the `CounterVec` and ignore the error

       ii. If no, return a nil `CounterVec` and the received error

3. If received a nil `CounterVec` from registration, interrupt with a panic,
   because an interrupt would suggest a failure in the created `CounterVec`,
   which should be fixed by the programmer.
```

#### Consumer Package

> The below example change will walk through how a consumer package 
> will be integrated with the metrics package:
> 
> Each consumer package in Kanister will have a main struct and a "metrics.go" file . 
> 
> An example of this would be the controller package: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The below example will walk through how a consumer package will be integrated
with the metrics package:

Each consumer package in Kanister will have a main struct and a "metrics.go"
file.

An example of this would be the controller package:
```

controller/controller.go

```golang
type Controller struct {
    config           *rest.Config
    crClient         versioned.Interface
    clientset        kubernetes.Interface
    dynClient        dynamic.Interface
    osClient         osversioned.Interface
    recorder         record.EventRecorder
    actionSetTombMap sync.Map
    metrics          *metrics // add a new member to the existing struct
}
```

```golang
// New create controller for watching Kanister custom resources created
func New(c *rest.Config) *Controller {
	return &Controller{
		config:  c,
		metrics: newMetrics(prometheus.DefaultRegistry), // this helper method call will be made during init
	}
}
```

controller/metrics.go

```golang
const (
    ACTION_SET_COUNTER_VEC_LABEL_RES = "resolution"
    ACTION_SET_COUNTER_VEC_LABEL_OP_TYPE = "operation_type"
)

type metrics struct {
    ActionSetCounterVec *prometheus.CounterVec
}

> // helper method to construct the correct "LabelHeaders":"LabelValues" mapping
> // to ensure type safety

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
// getActionSetCounterVecLabels is a helper method to construct the correct
// "LabelHeaders":"LabelValues" mapping to ensure type safety.
```

func getActionSetCounterVecLabels() []kanistermetrics.BoundedLabels {
    bl := make([]kanistermetrics.BoundedLabel, 2)
	  bl[0] = kanistermetrics.BoundedLabel{LabelName: ACTION_SET_COUNTER_VEC_LABEL_RES,
		LabelValues: []string{"success", "failure"}}
    bl[1] = kanistermetrics.BoundedLabel{LabelName:
    ACTION_SET_COUNTER_VEC_LABEL_BLUEPRINT, 
    LabelValues: []string{"backup", "restore"}}
    return bl
}

> // helper method to construct the labels correctly. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
// constructActionSetCounterVecLabels is a helper method to construct the
// labels correctly.
```

func constructActionSetCounterVecLabels(operation_type string, resolution string) prometheus.Labels {
	return prometheus.Labels{ACTION_SET_COUNTER_VEC_LABEL_OP_TYPE: operation_type, 
  ACTION_SET_COUNTER_VEC_LABEL_RES: resolution}
}

> // helper method to create a Metrics interface

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
// newMetrics is a helper method to create a Metrics interface.
```

func newMetrics(gatherer prometheus.Gatherer) *metrics {
    actionSetCounterOpts := prometheus.CounterOpts{
        Name: "action_set_resolutions_total",
        Help: "Total number of action set resolutions",
    }
    actionSetCounterVec := kanistermetrics.InitCounterVec(gatherer,
		actionSetCounterOpts, getActionSetCounterVecLabels())
    return &metrics{ActionSetCounterVec: actionSetCounterVec}
}
```

> The below example will show how the above created ActionSetCounterVec 
> will be incremented in a method:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The below example will show how the above created `ActionSetCounterVec` will
be incremented in a method:
```

```golang
func (c *Controller) handleActionSet(ctx context.Context) {
  c.metrics.ActionSetCounterVec.With(constructActionSetCounterVecLabels("backup", "success")).Inc()
}
```

> Alternatively, one can also directly call the Prometheus API with 
> positional arguments:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Alternatively, one can also directly call the Prometheus API with positional
arguments:
```

```golang
func (c *Controller) handleActionSet(ctx context.Context) {
  c.metrics.ActionSetCounterVec.WithLabelValues("backup", "success").Inc()
}
```

## Testing

> 1. The testing will include manual testing of whether the metrics added are 
>    successfully getting exported to Kanister. 
> 
> 2. The interfaces listed above in the metrics package, apart from InitCounterVec 
>    and generateLabelCombinations, will not be unit-tested, since they would be 
>    testing the behavior of the Prometheus API itself, which breaks the chain 
>    of trust principle with dependencies in unit testing.  
>    InitCounterVec will be unit tested using the test_util 
>    package: https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/prometheus/client_golang/prometheus/testutil 
>    in Prometheus.
> 
> 3. Integration tests will be added for code that exports new metrics, 
>    to ensure that the behavior of exporting metrics is correct. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. The testing will include manual testing of whether the metrics added are
   successfully getting exported to Kanister.

2. The interfaces listed above in the metrics package, apart from
   `InitCounterVec` and `generateLabelCombinations`, will not be unit-tested,
   since they would be testing the behavior of the Prometheus API itself, which
   breaks the chain of trust principle with dependencies in unit testing.
   `InitCounterVec` will be unit tested using the
   [test_util](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/prometheus/client_golang/prometheus/testutil)
   package in Prometheus.

3. Integration tests will be added for code that exports new metrics, to ensure
   that the behavior of exporting metrics is correct. 
```
